Directory Traversal File Include Payloads (#662)
OWASP/wstg: document/4-Web_Application_Security_Testing/05-Authorization_Testing/01-Testing_Directory_Traversal_File_Include.md

The next stage of testing is analyzing the input validation functions present in the web application. Using the previous example, the dynamic page called `getUserProfile.jsp` loads static information from a file and shows the content to users. An attacker could insert the malicious string `../../../../etc/passwd` to include the password hash file of a Linux/UNIX system. Obviously, this kind of attack is possible only if the validation checkpoint fails; according to the file system privileges, the web application itself must be able to read the file.

> **Note:** To successfully test for this flaw, the tester needs to have knowledge of the system being tested and the location of the files being requested. There is no point requesting `/etc/passwd` from an IIS web server.

Reviewer: @ThunderSon should this be:
```md
> Note: To successfully test for this flaw, the tester needs to have knowledge of the system being tested and the location of the files being requested. There is no point requesting `/etc/passwd` from an IIS web server.
```

Reviewer 2: I am considering not to use `>` for notes. It's representation is coming off a bit too zoned out in the PDF. Let's keep it as is for this one, I'm reviewing this to follow on across the whole guide. Maybe have a smaller text, or change it a bit like in books.

```text
http://example.com/getUserProfile.jsp?item=../../../../etc/passwd
```

> Another  common example is including content from an external source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another common example is including content from an external source:
```

  - root directory: `<drive letter>:`
  - directory separator: `:`

It's a common mistake by developers to not expect every form of encoding and therefore only do validation for basic encoded content. If at first the test string isn't successful, try another encoding scheme.

> You can find encoding techniques an ready to be used directory traversal payloads at [PayloadsAllTheThings - Directory Traversal](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Directory%20Traversal)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find encoding techniques and ready to use directory traversal payloads at [PayloadsAllTheThings - Directory Traversal](https://github.com/swisskyrepo/PayloadsAllTheThings/tree/master/Directory%20Traversal)
```

> #### Windows specific considerations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Windows Specific Considerations
```
